                        !Patience
                        =========


Patience is a card game for a single player. Various options for dealing and 
style of play are available.


Contents
========

1. How to play
2. Key shortcuts
3. Choices


1. How to play
==============

Clicking on the app's icon opens the game window. The seven columns of cards 
are referred to as the table. The four cards in the top right are called the 
stack. The card back below the stack represents the undealt deck, and the 
exposed card next to it is the waste pile. The score of games won is displayed
in the top-left, the number of cards left to be dealt in the top-right.

The object of the game is to uncover all the cards on the table and drag them
to the stack. The stack is filled in ascending order from Ace to King.

Click on the deck to deal more cards to the waste pile. Dealt cards can be
dragged to the table. Each column on the table is arranged in descending value
from King to Ace in alternate suit colour. Cards can also be dragged from
column to column on the table in order to uncover more cards. The game
continues until no more cards can be uncovered or the stack is full.

If you get stuck, selecting 'Resign' from the main menu displays all the cards
on the table face-up. You can also click on the deck to cycle through the
cards remaining undealt.

Selecting 'New game' reshuffles the pack and starts again.

Clicking ADJUST on a suitable card in the table or the pile will send it
straight to the stack.

Clicking 'Remember position' from the main menu will keep the position and
size of the game window for the next session.


2. Key shortcuts
================

Esc    Resign the game
F2     Start a new game
F1     Show help


3. Choices
==========

If 'Only Kings start a new column' is selected, then only Kings can be dragged
to empty holes on the table. Deselecting this option allows any card to be
dragged to a hole, making the game much easier.

'Reverse deal' refers to the process by which cards are turned over from the
deck to the waste pile. The default is that cards, selected from the top of
the deck in groups of three, are order reversed  while being moved from the
deck to the pile. This results in 2/3 of the pack being visible by running
through it twice. The alternative is for no reversal, meaning that only 1/3 of
the deck is visible when running through it, making the game much harder.

You can choose to have cards dealt in threes, or singly (in which case
'Reverse deal' makes no difference).

Clicking 'Sound' will use a beep to indicate an illegal move.
