Usage and distribution conditions for QTM v1.45  © Steve Harrison, 1993-2013
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ** Please note: this licence overrides any previous QTM licence details **

Much time and effort has gone into the making of QTM, so I would be grateful
if you would follow the conditions below for the distribution and use of the
QTM player module and source code.

You are free to use the QTM module and source code as you please, so long as
you understand the author cannot be help responsible for any harm to the user
or user's data that may result from use of QTM or its source code (or parts
thereof).


QTMModule  The QTM module is FREEWARE and can be distributed freely over the
---------  internet, through public domain libraries and bulletin boards, so
long as it is not sold for a profit.

Use of the QTM player module in PD/FREEWARE and COMMERCIAL applications,
games, demos, etc. is perfectly acceptable so long as the original author,
Steve Harrison, is credited and the current QTM web address listed
( www.phlamethrower.co.uk/riscos/qtm.php ). In these cases the file
'QTMModule' may be copied in to the program's own directory or combined into
the program's code.

Where the QTM module is to be used in COMMERCIAL releases, the only added
condition to its use is that a copy of the final commercial application is
sent to Steve at the address in the 'Contacts' file. Royalties are NOT
requested for commercial uses of QTM v1.xx.


Source code  The full source code of QTM is released into the public
-----------  domain under the following conditions: The UNALTERED source
code may be distributed as for the QTM module, if you wish to distribute
modified versions of the source code - or modified versions of QTM - please
contact me first, via email or at the address in the 'Contacts' file.

The unmodified QTM source code may be combined into applications, games,
demos, etc. for PD/FREEWARE or COMMERCIAL release, so long as the
distribution conditions are followed as for the QTM module (above).

If you wish to release a program using your own modified form of the QTM
source code, please contact me first via email or at the address in the
'Contacts' help file. Most of the time the conditions will simply involve
crediting myself and including a note mentioning that a modified version of
the QTM source code has been used.



I hope this doesn't sound too legally minded, but basically I want QTM to be
used wherever possible, and I encourage people to modify the source code for
the better - especially when the QTM module doesn't provide a function that
you need!
                                                        Steve Harrison, 2013