                              TchScrn
                              -------

!TchScrn is a driver for D-WAV eGalax based touchscreens and RaspberryPi 7"
"offical" display including a configuration and calibration program.

The touchscreen can be used as mouse replacement. Due to the lack of buttons
the buttons are emulated in the following way:

When pressing a certain position on the screen every few Centiseconds the
meaning of releasing or moving will be changed.

At first there is no special button emulation. If you are releasing the
screen or trying to move the pen on the screen it will behave as if you would
have just moved the mouse and will only move the mouse pointer. After a while
without releasing or activity a movment or releasing will behave as if you
would have clicked on SELECT on the mouse. Then it will behave as if you
clicked MENU and then as if you clicked on ADJUST. At the end the cycle will
start again with no button click behaviour.

During the button emulation selection the shape of the mouse pointer will
change and indicate the actual button emulation.

If you are clicking shortly afterwards again on the same point this will
behave as a double or triple click of the same button.

Note that you are not able to emulate pressing of several buttons parallel.

Installation
------------

The program shall be installed inside !Boot.Resources. It will automatically
install the required parts into configuration folder after it has been
detected for the first time.

Deinstallation
--------------

Remove the program at least from !Boot.Resources. If the configuration is
called and detects that the main program is no longer available it will
deinstall itself automatically.

Configuration
-------------

You can configure the time between changing the button emulation and you
have also to calibrate your touchscreen. Therefore you can divide your screen
into a number rectangles in horizontal and vertical direction. Afterwards you
have to locate the edges of the rectangles. This is done by showing a white
screen. For every point at an edge of rectangles there will appear a cross on
the screen. After you have clicked on the cross on the touchscreen the next
cross for the next point will be shown and so on until all points have been
located. Then the white screen will disappear automatically. The new settings
will be valid after saving them by closing the calibration window and after a
reenabling of the touchscreen driver.

Beyond this the setting for the mouse are still valid to control most
behaviour like double clicks etc.

Module Commands
---------------

See Docs.specification/html for details.

Enjoy

Thomas Milius